what is up guys karma medic here and
today we're gonna be covering the verbal
reasoning section of the u contest I'm
gonna go through a bunch of questions on
my computer and answer them live on
camera so you guys can see my thought
process and what it is that I'm taking
into account when answering these
questions if you guys don't know who I
am my name is Nasir I'm a second year
medical student at King's College London
and I make all kinds of interesting
videos about medical school life and
medical school here on this channel so
feel free to subscribe if you guys want
to follow along I also have an Instagram
that you guys seem to really like so
feel free to follow me on there if you
want to get more day-to-day updates
about what I'm up to I'm actually
getting on a flight to Toronto later
today start doing scientific research in
Canada but you know what like I'm not
gonna be able to record in this room
when I'm in Canada gonna miss it when
I'm making videos over there so I
thought I would make another video
before I left so like I said today we're
going to be tackling the verbal
reasoning questions if you guys are
looking for specific tips for this
section then I would direct you to a
video that I made last year I'll put
links to it in the description and
somewhere here on screen that video
covers all the different tips and tricks
that you'll need to tackle an ace this
section before today I'm just gonna go
through the questions live on camera
show you guys what it is that I'm
thinking about and also a big THANK YOU
to mehta phi for partnering with me on
this video
medified is the online you can't
question bank that i've been using for
all of my UConn videos and it's what I
would recommend honestly if you guys are
looking for a question bank to practice
these you can't questions so if you guys
want to check out metafile I'll leave
links to their website in the
description down below
without further ado let's jump straight
into answering questions live on camera
so verbal reasoning is split into two
false and can tell and reading
comprehension I'm gonna click on this
general one here so I get questions from
both sides of the spectrum so I actually
get asked this question quite a lot
people are always asking me should I
read these questions first and then go
to the paragraph or should I go to the
paragraph and then go to the questions I
will read the question first and pick
out the most important words okay the
key words the unique words to that
question that will take me to the answer
in the paragraph then I will scan the
paragraph for those words and try and
answer that question while I'm scanning
the paragraph to answer that single
question I'm obviously gonna be reading
a lot of other things within that
paragraph and those are going to be
memory cues for future questions so I'll
explain as I go along but basically I'm
reading the question first and then I'm
going to the program
Communist Party of China is the
governing party of the People's Republic
of China
so now I guess the question becomes is
there are the People's Republic of China
the same thing as China because it says
here the Communist Party is the
governing party of the People's Republic
of China which is here and says here the
CPC is the sole governing party of China
okay so the rest of paragraph doesn't
seem to talk about that in these parties
however hold no real power or
independence from the CPC which is the
Communist Party chance that something
else we're gonna go with true for this
one other eight legal parties of China
have staged cooze against the ruling
government okay quick scan for coos okay
I did a quick scan I didn't see anything
about coup so I'm gonna say can tell
there's no evidence to tell me that it's
false there's no evidence tell me that
it's true so I'm gonna go to can tell
CPC governs on the basis of democratic
centralism under all circumstances so
that is before I even look at the
questions or whatever this is a very
extreme statement it's saying under all
circumstances it governs in a democratic
fashion so it's probably gonna be false
I don't know I'm gonna read the
paragraph now but anytime there's a very
extreme statement unless it is stated in
the paragraph as well as an extreme
statement tends to be false but let's
see so all it says about this is that it
entails democratic and open discussion
so we can't tell if it's democratic
centralism under all circumstances its
organized on the basis of democratic
centralism but we don't know if it's if
it's acting within democratic centralism
at all times it just says that it's
organized on the basis of it
so does it do it on all circumstances
I'm gonna say can't tell I don't think
we can say false either because we don't
have any evidence to say that it doesn't
act in that circumstance yes I'm gonna
have can tell for the majority of the
time the polity borough and its Standing
Committee are responsible for most of
the party's duties okay let's find that
word Poli to borough and standing
committee okay here most most duties and
responsibilities are vested in the
potable understanding community for the
majority of the time can we say that
that's true for the majority of the time
and
most duties and responsibilities so I
this doesn't really talk about time the
body meets once a year most duties and
responsibilities are vested in positive
or whatever so that is a majority of the
responsibility but it doesn't mean that
it's for the majority of the time so I'm
gonna go with can tell the chairman of
the Central Military Commission is the
commander in chief the People's
Liberation Army all right let's find
people so at the Liberation Army I like
I can't tell from this paragraph and
there's no information to tell me
otherwise so I'm gonna go with can tell
I feel like I've chosen one too many can
tells for this but let's see okay cool
so four out of five I got one of them
incorrect so let's see what went on
there for the majority of the time or
really let's see the highest party TBC
is not Congress okay oh I didn't even
see the sentence I was in a completely
different place
so yeah that's like that's one of the
disadvantages I would say about reading
the question first and then skimming
through the paragraph to find the
information for example here at politic
world on the Standing Committee is
talked about here which is where I read
about it and where I got my information
from but it's also talked about just up
here the highest body of the thing is
blah blah how do I read the entire thing
to begin with and sort of try to
remember what was going on maybe I would
have realized that but I think that's
probably gonna be a waste of time and so
I'll happily take the loss of one point
out of five points on this question and
move on with my life
it's better than I get for correct and
then five right instead of waste a ton
of time on this question and maybe get
five out of five right but then not have
enough time for questions down the line
oh my gosh this is what we would call a
long boy this is a lot of reading let's
see what we can do which of the
following statements is false these are
the ones that take the longest time
because you have to individually
evaluate every single one of the answers
Tokyo became the capital of Japan in
1943 what am I going to skim for 1943
and that's
pretty much it now will that's the most
unique part of this sentence here
Tokyo capital and Japan are not the most
unique aspects of this they're probably
going to be talked about in many
different places in this paragraph but
the word 1943 is likely to be unique and
only come up once so that's why I'm
gonna quickly scan for and I find it
right here so let's read the sentence
that's evolved in Tokyo administers 23
Ward 12 City cover city emerged and
became the Metropolitan pre-factor in
1943 does metropolitan prefactor mean
the capital I don't know so which of the
following is false could be this one so
let's move on and value some others the
official name of Tokyo is actually Tokyo
metropolis so Tokyo officially Tokyo
metropolis is the capital of Japan okay
so now I know that this one is true and
I now also know that this one is false
the capital of Japan is Tokyo metropolis
whereas in 1943 Tokyo became merged and
became the Metropolitan prefecture so
now I know for sure the number one is
false number two is true so now I don't
need to evaluate number three and four
and I encourage you guys to do this as
well it's asking for the one false
statement once you've found the false
statement
choose a statement have confidence and
believe in yourself and move on with
your life because you are going to be so
stressed for time tackling these
questions once you know you have the
right answer just believe in yourself
have confidence in yourself click it and
move on so yeah the next question the
Tokyo metropolitan government covers the
whole the metropolitan prefecture is
responsible funding the cupcake oversees
23 special Ward's governs 30
municipalities so they're what I've done
is just quickly scan through the answers
so that I can gain a little bit of an
idea of what kinds of things I'm going
to be looking for in the paragraph and
now I'm gonna check them one by one so
ho much politan Prefecture metropolis is
one of the seven Tokyo metropolitan air
government so that's what I'm looking
for talking metropolitan to a few
metropolitan to a few metropolitan let's
see a couple of these so overseas the 23
special Awards 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 I
don't see 20 there so much Bolton
government administers the 23 special
awards of Tokyo okay so it could be
governs 13 municipalities as well also
administers 39 years policies that's
false okay so at this point I'm not a
million percent sure of my answer but I
have spent quite a lot of time answering
this one question and you shouldn't
spend a lot of time answering any one
question because all questions are worth
the same number of marks so I'm gonna go
with what I think is correct what it's
like homeless in my mind correct and I'm
gonna move on with my life you choose
the question and you move on which of
the following statements is false based
on the passage there are more than
thirty seven point eight million people
living in the metropolitan thing so
population is over nine million total
population exceeding 13 million
prefecture is for the world's most
populous metropolitan area upwards of
thirty seven point eight people maybe
some 20 million so there are more than
37 20 million people living in the
metropolitan Prefecture the prefecture
is part of the world's most populous
metropolitan area hmm I don't know if we
can know that for sure the city has the
second highest number of Fortune 500
countries that he has the second highest
number of Fortune 500 companies in any
city in the world okay let's find
fortune 500 really quick I don't see
fortune 500 anywhere on here city house
fifty one of the fortune 500 companies
the highest number of any city in the
world city has the second highest number
sets false so it says the city hosts
fifty one fortune 500 companies which is
the highest number of any city in the
world here it says that the city has the
second highest number of fortune 500
companies
so that one statement is false also in
these questions I find the easiest to
quickly look at the answer responses
that have numbers or dates or things
like that because those are quick and
easy to find within the paragraph
whereas something like this Tokyo is
home to the Tokyo Broadcasting System is
just words and there's a lot of words
here so it's gonna be more difficult to
find those ones first so generally I
gravitate towards the number related
answers when I'm quickly trying to scan
through the paragraph for those words so
yeah you don't have to do these in order
obviously a true or false be true or
false you can choose whatever order you
want so choose the ones that you know
you're gonna be able to find the fastest
so yeah I can go for B with that one it
can be inferred from the passage that
okay so this is an important concept
inferring means that you're going to
make an assumption in order to reach
this conclusion
it's not going to be specifically stated
in the paragraph it's not going to be
specifically denied it's something that
you can infer so that's something to
keep in mind it's you need to make an
assumption in order to reach this
conclusion so tourists generally have a
positive experience in Tokyo Tokyo
ranked first in blah blah and fourth in
blah blah the city is considered an
alpha plus world city it was ranked
first in best overall experience
category TripAdvisor the little houses
nightlife shopping local folks actually
and claims to the streets I'm gonna go
with this one
you know there's a lot of positive
things here that I think a tourist would
be interested in helpfulness of locals
it's a very touristy thing nightlife
shopping transportation whatever so yeah
I'm gonna be with I'm gonna go to this
then I'm gonna quickly read these cost
of living is low generally from this
paragraph you get the vibe that cost of
living is definitely not though
Tokyo is not very safe I haven't seen
anything about that it's common for
people to emigrate I also haven't seen
anything about that even though there
might be but I'm pretty sure this one is
right and I'm just gonna have confidence
myself and I'm gonna move on the overall
aim of this passage is likely who these
questions are good so whenever you're
answering this question make sure that
you don't answer the question based on
just one of the paragraphs it's saying
the overall aim of the passage so you
need to take into account everything
that's being said in these three
paragraphs what do we think the aim of
this passage is to explain the
historical importance of Tokyo so that's
good for this part over here for the
first paragraph the second paragraph
kind of yeah explain some history but
not the third paragraph to describe the
governance structure of Tokyo yes in the
first paragraph and then maybe the
second and then the half of the second
paragraph to promote to Tokyo to promote
Tokyo as a tourist destination towards
the end of the third paragraph or the
third paragraph itself I would say does
serve that purpose is this in focus boy
you better be so from the Tokyo
stairs destination yeah maybe it's give
an overview of Tokyo its key attributes
on its governance so this to me I think
might be better because it this is more
holistic of what the entire three
paragraphs are talking about because it
talks about the governance it talks
about different parts of Tokyo and it
gives an overview about like tourism and
stuff like that I'm gonna go with this
one I think this the more just the most
generalized one
all right let's see why go let's go
cheeky five out of five all right dope
we're doing good we are doing good next
question next question next question
which of the following phrases is not
explicitly used in the passage to
describe Journal of the plague year I
this should be good I'll send the
history magic fiction has sort of normal
narrative nonfiction so quickly read
through this novel is a kind of one-man
blow-off entick history so which one is
not used to get I think is she imagined
the fiction just like a historic novel
so really cheeky all right very first
question I'm obviously gonna start from
the top and scan my way down and it was
literally the last couple of sentences
in very cheeky UK fashion so yeah make
sure you guys do things quickly practice
quickly skimming quickly gathering
information and quickly making decisions
as well decisions that you know are
right which is the phone claim supported
by the passage a journal is non novel as
a work of nonfiction
it was initially read as a work of
nonfiction but by the blah blah the
fictional status was accepted so this is
gonna be no a journal to play video
space on only one source the Journal of
Henry fo first place like have one man's
experiences okay it's based on only one
source the journal Fanny phone is an
account of one man's experiences so I'm
not even gonna read the third one I'm
not gonna read the fourth one even
though the third one has a number and it
can be quickly deemed too or false let
me read that quick write one detail then
some non fictional cons we're playing
1916 65 235
normal count of one man's thing in 65 I
don't see any comparisons to other books
written in that time so I'm just gonna
go with B where's the phone can be
inferred from the information of the
passage flow published on the page when
he was in his 60s as written in the
years just prior to the book's
publication in 1722 so 70 22 and he was
5 in 65 so he was born in 1660 so that
would make him 40 62 when it was
published so he published when he was in
his 60s yes that's true he was 62
alright next I don't want to read any of
the other ones which of the following is
not true of the journal figure year
according to the passage it's based on a
personal account events at scene 65 not
true this is true the detailed account
gives an impression of being accurate
and real mmm
I'd say so eyewitness account events at
the time yeah I'd say so
oh that says is not true sedan a sports
game it considers a variety of
perspectives and experiences no it's
only one man's experience and we know
that because we answered this already in
the second question I think of this
section contains journal entries
subdivided into four sections one for
each reason let me see if I can quickly
just rule that out to be sure if my
answer the book is told chronologically
with out sections or chapter headings
the book is told somewhat
chronologically though without sanctions
or chapter headings and here says
divided into four sections one for each
region so this is the false one which
means this might be true oh it does have
multiple different experiences that okay
fine almost got that wrong okay which of
the following according to passage is
true for lived in London in 1722 we have
no idea four of several historical
novels I don't remember if I only wrote
fiction also don't remember the first
did not published another plague year
under his own name I mean he did publish
it under the initials so isn't that kind
of his own name
that's cheeky are his initials his name
who knows all right I'm gonna go this
one and that's how are we doing
all right chica para 5y check that let
me just close a blanks everything's
going yellow that should fix this issue
let's see what we got wrong journal
things based on only one source
I should have corrected after I realized
this was wrong in question for my bad so
very often actually you answer a
question that will make you realize for
certain that something the answer
previously is either right or wrong
because they will be mutually exclusive
or contradict each other which in this
case I definitely should have gone back
and changed it I just got distracted and
moved on keep that in mind you can
answer one question and know that that's
true for certain which will help you
know whether a previous question was -
or false all right next question so oh
yeah
Sensei EJ he's so beat the United States
is for the teachings of curation karate
so the United States to teach karate
that's why I've taken out of this let's
see no se Jo soo break got sent to
Brazil so this is false he did not get
sent to the United States kicks and
elbow strikes to the head are allowed in
cushion sparring so huge is my main
elements there's about three kicks in
all those kicks novels had a neck
however kicks to the knee kicks to the
head knee strikes punch love running
kicks they never are permitted okay so
kicks elbow strikes to the head are
allowed however it kicks to the head are
permitted
what about elbow strikes to the head
hand and elbow strikes to the head are
prohibited so this statement is false
it's saying elbow and kicks are allowed
however kicks are allowed but elbow is
not so that makes this the total sum of
the statement false masu Tatsu o Yama is
still practicing today that's what yeah
to Aoyama so I guess I don't know if we
can say that this specific person
Aoyama is practicing still we it says
it's still practice in the limited
number of dojos but I don't think we
know if this guy specifically is
practicing today we can't tell there's
nothing to say that he is and there's
nothing say that he isn't so I'm gonna
go to can't tell spying is referred to
as ki Han all right let's try and find
that real quick Akhil ki Han basics kata
and kumite three main elements technique
forms and sparring these are sometimes
referred to as the three KS so sparring
is Q might so this is false all right
okay that was a good one let's see
alright nice nice
really quick four out of four these are
the kinds of questions that you really
hope to get in your in your exams
because you can just quickly go through
them quickly eliminate them although it
looked like there was a lot of
complicated words and foreign phrases
and names and everything like that
if you just ignore all of those outside
factors and just focus on the words
quickly skim through the paragraphs to
find the information you need you can't
answer these questions really really
quickly alright guys and I think the
eyes
for me I'm gonna cut this video here I
have a flight to catch in a couple of
hours to Toronto so I'm gonna need to
cut it off here if you guys enjoyed this
video make sure you do leave a like on
it and subscribe to my channel to see
more you can't and medical school
related content from me I'm definitely
gonna be updating you about my time as a
researcher and while I'm on holiday this
summer in Toronto and then in Greece so
definitely follow me on Instagram and
subscribe to my channel if you guys want
to be kept up to date with that anyways
guys it's been an absolute pleasure I
hope you guys enjoyed and I will see you
in the next one peace